2022-07-04 Lacunose witnesses

Currently I'm specifying lacunose witnesses via the special
macro $?. It feels hackish, and it imports the limitations
of macros (i.e., no hands). It seems better to specify the
lacunas directly with + and -. Also the + and - with $? are
backwards: (=+ $? a ; means that a becomes lacunose).

Therefore, I should use %- for beginning of lacuna, and %+
for the end. Then, I should retire the $? special macro.

2022-07-03 Pooling witnesses

Sometimes I want to pool two witnesses into one. For example,
there are two Gothic witnesses in Galatians. They hardly
overlap, and when they do, they are nearly identical. It may
make good sense to combine or pool them. (1) Their joint
witness could pass fragmentation/attestation thresholds.
(2) They could annotate the real source of the information
better. (3) When combined, their mixture is easier to detect.

So a proposed syntax is:

& goth gothA gothB ;  " Pool gothA and gothB into goth "

Naturally, all these have to be in the Chron file. This
instruction suppresses gothA and gothB in the output, and
computes goth as their joint readings if they agree, the
attested reading if one is '?'; and '?' if they disagree.

I need to do this because the hand syntax (goth:0 goth:1)
isn't really set up for this, especially in that each hand
must be explicit (for error checking of ECM). And it will
either override the first or the second, when that temporal
semantics isn't what I want.

2019-07-16 Weighing by Edit-Distance

The question of whether and how to weigh the characters is
a perennial one in cladistics. Currently, every unit is
weighed the same, which could have its biases. But if every
vunit weighs the same some nodes can be erected on apographies
that appear, well, unimpressive. But on the other hand, it
is not very clear how individual variants should be weighed
without some sort of model.

One idea is to weigh the characters based on edit distance.
The more that the variant is involved (e.g., in added, removed,
or substituted characters, i.e., the Levenshtein edit distance),
the more it should weight. Its granularity need not be on at
the character count but at the world level (or binned).

I can add the edit-distance weights by hand, and I have done
so, but it is hard to switch it on and off. Therefore, I devised
a short notation |2 |3 etc. on the variant separator to express
a switchable weight, controlled by the WEIGHED environment
variable.

2019-06-10 Annotating correctors

Right now, I don't pass through low-level correctors into
the prep output files, but this may be error prone in my
not noticing correctors. The thought I have is that I should
annotate such correctors in the .vr file, even if they don't
make it to the .tx file.

Implementation looks really hairy though: no real hook in
vr{Verse,Readings}().

2018-09-27 Implemented mandated selection of witnesses

I chose to go with a command-line list of witnesses, which
gets looked after processing everything and right before the
standard suppressions. If there is nothing on the command-
line, it behaves as before. If there is a list, it marks
each witness (or macro) as mandated, and it suppresses all
non-mandated witnesses.

The nice thing is that I can control which MSS are in from
the command line, using macros I define in the file. (I have
a $A macro for those MSS close to the Ausgangstext, with $1,
$2, $3, for each tier separately.

I no longer see a use-case for special macro $$, nor the '+'
command, nor the complement operation.

Selecting a parallel, however, could be a viable extension.

2018-09-27 Some ideas for prep:

* Command-line control for the subset of MSS to be processed
  and output. This is so that I can have a master collation
  file and select portions for analysis.

  A generalization of this idea is to take all the MSS on the
  command-line and put them into a special macro, e.g. $$, for
  use in the collation file. This would probably need a '+'
  command for positively including a file, or a complement
  macro command (=~ $~ $$ ;) and suppress the complement
  (- $~ ;).

  An extension of this is to select a (synoptic) parallel,
  perhaps by prefixing a '/'.
